Hey.
Well done on achieving yet another module.
You're doing really really good and I'm here cheering for you all the time
even--
even though you can't see it, I'm actually here just cheering for you.
Now I want to talk about the idea of space repetition.
Now there's a lot of research that's gone into how humans learn and one of the most well tested techniques
is space repetition.
It's the idea that if you learn something just once, you're probably going to forget it.
But if you learn something and then you come back to it in a week to review it and then a month to review
it and then a year to review it then that knowledge is yours.
You own it.
So it's the same with programming.
If you've learned a new concept let's say if else statements and you never use it again.
You've just heard how it works
you've seen what it does and then you never actually use it?
You're not going to remember it.
You're not going to remember how to use it the next time you come across it.
You're not going to remember to use it when you actually need to
in a program of your own.
So as a part of the course I try really hard to add in more repetition and I know sometimes it feels
like it's repetitive
right?
But you know if that is the case you can always listen at 2X speed.
You can change the toggle of the player so that I speak much faster and you can get through more of the
content
if you're just reviewing it. But it's there for a reason. It's to try and remind you of the concept, to try
and enact this kind of space repetition.
But you can also do it yourself like if you keep a list of the things that you've done and at regular
intervals increasing intervals, say a day, a week, a month, you just come back to those concepts just review
it once more.
You will be able to keep that knowledge in your long term memory and turn it into a skill rather than
kind of like you know when you cram for exams and you just learn everything once and then like a week
down the line, you forgotten everything like this is true for me.
I've crammed-- firstly I've had so time where it feels like it's impossible to study everything in that amount
of time.
I remember when I was doing my end of med school exams I had four days of full time exams.
It was like 9 to 5 with an hour lunch break of just exams on everything from like biochemistry to clinical
medicine to like just everything under the sun.
And I had to cram. I crammed so much knowledge and you know not like you know let alone now like many
years on, but even like a week down the line it was all gone.
It was like as if like there was no point doing it, doing that like cramming. So review the crux of
the topics that you learn on a regular basis. Try to use it in some sort of format like make a small
program or make a small quiz for yourself or feel something really really simple that you've already
built in the course but just do it by yourself.
Those are the moments when you're going to level up your skill and those are way more important than
listening to me like I'm just going to say like if you do the work and you actually write the programs,
that's really where it's most important.
So have a go at doing that and I'm going to be here continuing to cheer on you in the background.